

#### *24th August 2023*


## Attendees

| |
| --- |
|Ericsson: Jan Friman|
|Orange: Ludovic Robert|
|Telef√≥nica: Jose Ordonez-Lucena (chair), David Moro, Fernando|
|Vodafone: Eric Murray|
|KDDI: Toshi Wakayama|
|MTN: Rebecca Zitha|
|Huawei: Miranda Tsing|
|China Telecom: Dan Xu|
|China Mobile: Hanbai Wang, Baoyuhan, ZeBin Qian|
|Singtel: Foo Ming Hui|
|Comviva: Vidhi Mehta|
|TMUS: Murat Karabulut |
|Mavenir: Pradeep Achar, Sushanth H|


## Agenda


1. Discussion
- New API proposals:  [#276](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/276), [#277](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/277), [#280](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/280)
- Existing API proposals (status review): [#224](ttps://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/224), [#268](ttps://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/268), [#269](ttps://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/269), [#273](ttps://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/273)

2. AoB
- Clarification on taking API submission for TSC approval
3. Action Points



## Discussion

| **Agenda  Item**  |  Owner| Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** | | New API proposals have been added to the backlog for the past two weeks (point #1 in the agenda). As for the API proposals presented the last conf. call have been updated, some updates have been made (point #2 in the agenda). | 
| **Current issues** |  |  |
| [#217](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/217)  | China Mobile| **New API proposal: Click to Dial** </br> Updates: </br>- AP 20230810-01 closed. The owner has shared further information on underlying network capabilities needed for this API, including architecture and workflow details of applicable 3GPP documents.|
| [#266](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/266) ([PR#269](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/269))  | KDDI| **New API proposal: KYC Match**</br> Updates: Orange has become new supporter. |
| [#267](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/267) ([PR#268](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/268))  | KDDI| **New API proposal: KYC Fill-in**</br> Updates: Orange has become new supporter.| 
| [#271](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/271) ([PR#273](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/273))  | China Telecom, Huawei| **New API proposal: Site to cloud (S2C) VPN**</br> Updates: </br> - AP 20230810-02 closed, with the addition of the following references: RFC9291, RFC9182 and RFC 6241. </br> China Mobile as new supporter. Awaiting more feedback from other companies. |
| **Closed issues** |  |  |
| **New issues** |  | |
| [#284](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/284) ([PR#276](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/276))  | MTN | **New API proposal: Device Swap**</br> KDDI: how is this different from SIM Swap? </br> MTN: The checking activity on the new API is on device, while SIM Swap no. |
| [#285](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/285) ([PR#277](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/277))  | MTN | **New API proposal: IMEI Fraud**</br> Orange: the input is IMEI number, what is then the response? Is it status (blocked, blacklisted)? </br> Vodafone: is it in CAMARA scope to standardize the status options and messages? </br> Ericsson: is the group interested on working out subscribe-notify mechanisms for this API?|
| [#279](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/279) ([PR#280](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/280))  | TEF| **New API proposal: WebRTC**</br> TEF presented a slide deck reporting on the takeaways of the API proposal. No questions raised. |
  
## AoB

**Clarification on how to add new supporters**
- If a company wants to become supporter of an API which is included in the backlog, then a delegate of this company needs to add the company's name in the 'supporters' column in the [API backlog](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md). 

**Clarification on taking API submission for TSC approval** -> proccess is detailed [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/pull/86).

1. The WG chair checks that the template is duly filled in. Otherwise, the API owner is requested to provide missing information.
2. After this sanity check, each WG participant declares their support (which is also documented in the template). The more support an API proposal gets, the better (it may get more traction).
3. When the API owner considers the API proposal is in good shape to go for approval, it informs the WG chair accordingly.
4. Upon receiving this information, the WG chair merges the Pull Request into the main branch, and sends the API proposal to the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) of CAMARA. This action shall be completed at least one week prior to the TSC meeting where the API proposal will be voted upon.
 
The whole procedure (steps 1-4) should be done within 2 regular meetings of the API Backlog WG. Nonetheless, it is up to the API owner to decide if it wants to shorten or extend this time period.

**Next TSC meeting to be held on 7th September**. API owners are encouraged to declare whether they want to take their individual API proposals for approval **before 31st August** (AP 20230824-01).

## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20230824-01 | API owners | Open | To declare which API proposals they want to take for approval at next TSC meeting. |
| 20230810-01 | China Mobile| Closed | To share further information/details on Click-to-Dial API, including references to existing standard documentation (e.g. 3GPP TS/TRs). This information shall be posted in [#217](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/217) |
| 20230810-02 | China Telecom | Closed | To share the IETF document (RFC) specifying the network API on top of which S2C VPN API will be built. This information shall be posted in [#271](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/271)|
| 20230810-03 | TEF | Closed | To confirm who (whether API owner or API backlog chair) will be responsible for sending the API proposal to TSC for approval, one week before next TSC meeting (7th Sept)  |




 
